Letter of Intent
Barbara Hvidt
(portfolio link)
Graphic Storytelling


My reason for applying to Graphic Storytelling is that I want to make great comics. As a child, I dreamt of drawing Donald Duck comics. In school I was discouraged from pursuing this impossible career, and set my sights on the digital entertainment industry instead. 
Last year I applied to the Computer Graphics Art Bachelor's Programme at The Animation Workshop, but realised during the interview that it was the wrong course for me. All of my favourite portfolio pieces were favourites because of the feeling and story within them. The interviewers made it clear that those things constituted a very small part of the course and unsurprisingly rejected my application. In the end, I wasn't actually interested in Computer Graphics; they saw it before I realised it myself. 
So I decided to return to my original dream of becoming a comic book creator. At the moment, I'm living on the French Riviera doing an applied arts foundation year and practicing my French. I am looking forward to moving on to somewhere more fitting for my ambitions, ideally the Graphic Storytelling Bachelor's Programme at your establishment. I am very excited about the opportunity to study in an environment with skilled peers and instructors, to contribute to said environment and work hard learning as much as possible. I will use the course to get my skills to a professional level. 

I love drawing and I love stories; There are a variety of domains that unite the two and that's where I'll make my career. I have a particular predilection for comics and illustration, but I'm looking forward to exploring the other fields the programme has to offer. In the end, I don't know what discipline(s) I will work with in the future, (and I'm fine with that) but I definitely want comics to be one of them. 
I want to offer something something new, inspiring, beautiful, enjoyable or thought provoking to my readers. I want to set the bar high and create something original.

One of my favourite works is "The Life and Times of Scrooge McDuck" by Don Rosa- a twelve chapter comic book telling the life story of Scrooge McDuck. Each story is separate is but connected to the series as a whole. What stands out about it is how tight it is. Working with strict page limitations, Don Rosa still manages to pace the stories just right for the best comical and dramatic impact. Take into account the crazy slapstick humour, carefully researched, beautifully drawn settings, and a wonderful portrayal of Scrooge McDuck's personality, and you know why this series got the Eisner Award. 

I would also like to mention the film "Pulp Fiction". There are many things to say about this great movie, but for now I'll focus on its structure.   It is very unconventional, with several short stories happening at different times making up a fragmented whole. The situations oscillate between hilarious, horrifying and touching but somehow remain consistent with each other. Having the audience slowly realise how the stories fit together and then coming back to the opening scene at the end of the movie is genius. It organizes the different stories, builds tension and plays on the viewer's expectations. 

And expectation is exactly where the film "Big Hero 6" is weak. After about half an hour with interesting characters in a gorgeous world, the plot flattens into a revenge-driven travesty. I was looking forward to where the story seemed to be going, but from one moment to the next, the rug was pulled from beneath my feet. I left the cinema with the sour feeling of having missed out on something that could have been great. I realise that it was an adaptation of a superhero comic, and I think it could have been a decent, wacky superhero movie if they hadn't set the expectations up for something completely different. 

In my opinion, superhero stories shouldn't be too serious, because the fact that they are superheroes with silly powers fits very awkwardly with a serious gritty tone like we see in "Captain America: The Winter Soldier". The film follows the Marvel superhero film template to the letter, a fact that makes it unmemorable and predictable. In addition, the main character is an outdated propaganda patriot. The problem with many superheroes is that they weren't very interesting characters to begin with, having been created for the pulp comic press many decades ago. 
I find it boring and unoriginal to reuse them again and again, and I find this movie to be a prime example of why I dislike the genre. It is one of my absolute least favourites. 

Recently I read "Shangri-La", a big one-volume comic by Mathieu Bablet. I was taken in by the beautiful visuals, but the storytelling was lacking- especially with regards to the characters. After more than 200 pages, I could not describe the personality of the protagonist- he mainly serves as a conduit for the author's reflections and changes his opinions whenever the plot needs him to. The other characters are better defined, but also quite flat. Large parts of the extensive dialogue feel contrived and many events are only explained after they happen. The characters have been sacrificed for a complex narrative that wants to touch on way too many themes for it to stay coherent. It was hard to care when everyone died at the end. 

"Saga" on the other hand, a comic by Brian K. Vaughan and Fiona Staples, is doing everything right where "Shangri-La" is stumbling. Five pages into the first issue, I already genuinely cared about the two main characters. This is done through dialogue that is true to character and lively facial expressions. Their wacky adventures stay relatable because they all center around characters and the relationships between them. At all times, the motivations of each character are clear- something that effectively builds anticipation and sympathy.

I used to hear that comics were passé, that other media had taken over completely. This general viewpoint seems to have changed. Even though selling comics from a newsstand is not nearly as profitable as it used to be, people definitely read comics; webcomics and other kinds of digital distribution are booming. Graphic novels are now respected as literature. Manga and superheroes have huge followings across different media. Comics are well and alive, they just no longer have monopoly on young boys' pocket money. The readers have changed, and so has the medium. Nowadays, There is a greater variety of comics targeted towards many different groups of readers.
Online, there is plenty of space for experiments: There are visual novels, there are webcomics that utilise animation and game elements, there are  endless-canvas comics, epic sagas and gag strips. In my opinion, it's a very exciting time to be a reader as well as a creator. 
I am certain that knowing how to be a freelancer will be useful to any comic creator, since it's mostly a project-based industry whether you're working for a big publisher or putting yourself out there independently. I am very glad that the programme has a module on this side of things as well. It's also possible to make a living through Patreon, where individuals support content creators with regular payments. All in all, I think the comics industry will keep renewing itself and experimenting and I'm looking forward to being a part of it. 

I have confidence that I can succeed and make a living. In order to improve myself as an artist, I am drawing every day and studying independently using books and online courses. I have good mastery of Photoshop, a basic grasp of Illustrator, and at the moment I'm learning how to use Krita. I go to life drawing sessions on a weekly basis and am active on the conceptart.org internet forum, where I have found a healthy culture of honest critique. I even went to the 2013 conceptart.org workshop in London, which turned out to be hugely important because I got a chance to speak to actual professional artists of various fields. Phil Holland made an impression by sincerely reviewing my amateur portfolio and telling me how to start better improving my art skills at home.
In July 2015 I went to The Animation Workshop Illustration Summer Course. Then in September that same year, I went to "Trojan Horse was a Unicorn", an artist convention for the digital entertainment industry where I again was inspired and tutored. Shane Mahan is worth mentioning here for teaching me some sculpting over several impromptu sessions and then gifting me a huge chunk of polymer clay, a handful of sculpting tools and the words "practice a lot, I expect great things from you."

There are a number of other artists who continue to inspire me:
Peter Mohrbacher, for doing the very thing that he loves doing, and making a living on it through Patreon. His paintings are beautiful, surreal and always have an exquisite colour palette. They emanate a certain twisted mood I really enjoy.
There is Carl Barks. I vividly remember the stories that shaped my childhood; The confident clean linework paired with mad adventures spanning the globe. His stories are uniquely accessible to readers of all ages, yet never condescending or crude. Most importantly though, they are simply a lot of fun to read. 
Emily Carroll deserves a mention too; a Canadian comic artist whom I like for her graphical and often chilling horror comics. She makes her living doing illustrations and comics- and both to a high standard in her own particular, decorative style. 
Other than that, I have a thorough admiration for more classical painters and sculptors, whose works I have seen in museums around the world. Some of the ones that really made an impression are: Canova, Rodin, Ilya Repin, Georges de La Tour, Bougereau, Giambologna, Mark Antokolsky  and John Singer Sargent. 
What these artists all have in common is a strong sense of character and storytelling in their works, something I aspire to have in my work as well. 
In particular, the painting "the Zaporozhye Cossacks writing a mocking letter to the Turkish Sultan" by Ilya Repin stands out as a uniquely fun, characteristic and well-composed image. I have a reproduction on my wall. 

In the 22 years of my life, I have travelled a lot. I've seen many different parts of Europe, I completed sixth form in the United Kingdom, and I travelled across Russia and Mongolia into China on economy class trains. I've been to Iceland, The United States of America, Canada and Hong Kong, conquering language barriers and making interesting acquaintances. 
It's a challenge living in a different country on your own, but a rewarding one. It has taught me that there is no one way to live life, and enabled me to better understand and adapt to who or what I encounter. It is through travelling and living abroad that I have learned to appreciate my own culture through comparison. 
And of course, it's inspiring to travel. I sketch wherever I go and expand my visual library and general knowledge base. In fact, the first comic in my portfolio is heavily based on my impressions from Mongolia. 

I also speak four languages fluently; Danish, English, French and German. 

As for financing the education, I am a Danish citizen so tuition fees do not apply. I expect that SU will cover my living costs, while my savings from work and family inheritance will cover the monthly materials cost. 

I hope that my letter has been informative, and that you are convinced of my sincerity and potential.
If you have any inquiries, feel free to contact me on b.hvidt@protonmail.com
Barbara Hvidt
