Story: (max. 1 page.):
Write a childhood memory that could be used as a base for a comic.
In this category, you must show your abilities as a storyteller. We focus on your ability to structure your story and make it alive.

It was a beautiful day in the kindergarten. With only a few small clouds in the sky, you could easily forget that it wasn't quite summer yet. 
I was four years old and I was about to become a hero. 
I was four years old and braver than all the other kids. 
I was four years old, stubborn and brave. 



We were all playing outside, when something happened. I didn't see how the invader came into the kindergarten, but I heard the shouts and came running to see. 
About five other children were already there, watching eagerly.
Walking around jerkily in the muddy back part of the kindergarten was a white hen. 
We all knew what a hen was, but I at least had never been close to one before.
What a strange creature! 

The others had excited faces and curious eyes.
"Do you think it's dangerous?" Jens asked me. 
I thought about it for a moment and looked at the hen: 
"I don't think so.." I answered.
I wasn't sure though. None of us knew how to react to this creature.
"What should we do?" Mickey said, "do you think we can catch it?" 
The others were nodding and making murmurs of agreement.
Jens stepped forward, arms spread wide.
He was too slow. 
The hen flapped it wings furiously and lifted itself about a meter off the ground. 
Startled, Jens retreated to a safe distance. 
Clearly this hen was more aggressive than we thought. 

We followed the hen around for a while. It left the muddy back part of the kindergarten, and walked past the sandpits. Whenever it moved, we moved. It tried to fly a few times, but fell back to the ground. We still kept a safe distance, but I wanted to get closer. 
To say that I was a stubborn child would be an understatement. I loved being contrary and took every opportunity to prove my independence from adult guidance. I knew I probably shouldn't go close to this creature; and that's exactly why I absolutely had to do it. 
As the hen approached the swings, I declared: "I don't think this hen is dangerous after all. I'm not afraid of it!"
The creature flapped its wings and got up on one of the swings. I walked towards it, slowly but bravely.  
two meters away. The hen stayed put. 
one meter. It still did not move. 
It stared at me. 
I stared back. 
The hen sitting on the swing was nearly at my eye level, so I stared even harder. All the while I pushed my face closer and closer. Its beak was almost touching my nose.
"See? It doesn't do anything!" I smirked.
And then it pecked at my eye.
Instantly I pulled back. My field of vision was swimming with black spots! Terrified that I might lose my eye, I realised that it had only hit the eyelid. 
My reflexes had saved me. 
How close it had been! Terrifying! Amazing! 
A small cut on my right eyelid was testament to my stupidity. bravery?  

Soon after, the adults took care of the hen. Later we learned that it had escaped from one of the neighbours and gotten in through a hole in the fence. For weeks after the event, I pointed to my eyelid and told everyone of my dangerous dare. 
"Be careful of hens!" I said "They can be dangerous!"
